# Chapter I - The Mistakes

The mistakes didn't show up right away. Their endemic nature only became apparent when it was far too late. That's the thing isn’t it, about mistakes: they're always presumed to be incidents. And yet when they're not - then what? 
A mis-take: implies that one can try again, do a retake, that one can recover from it, like a misstep. It implies that it can be fixed, the mis-take. 

How untrue that assumption proved to be, when we thought all was still swell, only last year blithely unaware. We were too weak to see the signals. And had we, we were too weak ourselves to give off signals to stop them. That’s how wrung-out we had become. 

Before we divulge more salient facts and gory details of the enfolding cataclysm, consider the exponential - or logarithmic effects (I'm a writer, not a mathematician) when mistakes start interacting. Clusterfuck does not begin to describe it. This clusterfuck was of the sneaky kind. It crept up on you with a long incubation time, like that of a virus. However unfair this might seem to us humans, let’s not forget viruses are not encumbered with any sense of morality. 

Alright, so what about the clusterfuck, you ask? It was the machines. They were powerful, the machines.

The machines.

The machines.

Our signals were weak. 

##                                         ~ * ~

Dora took the train that fatal, cataclysmic, cold winter morning because she had the most prosaic hangover. Her breakfast consisted of two paracetamol tablets and a slugged-down quarter-litre of milk that was more or less off, depending on how much notice you'd take of the clamouring of your tastebuds. 

Why milk, you ask? Well, she was Dutch, and it was her patriotic duty to save the world from the "milk lake" that would inundate the world, and destroy the economy, or whatever, at least, that was the drill in the eighties. She also just liked the taste. And she placebo'ed her stomach into thinking that the clockwise oscillations of the stuff that came out of a semi-tortured or at the least, gaslighted cow, would counteract the high-strung counterclockwise machinations of her upset gastric system.

Normally she would have taken a ride with her colleague Erwin, who had a Burmese EV that was actually charged every morning. She couldn't remember to charge her toothbrush; and more often than not, her fridge was out of juice too. Hence the penchant for items that were on the winding road to fermentation - that, or starvation. Well, let’s not exaggerate, malnutrition at worst. The party last night at her house had been a blast, but the icepicks thudding into her brain were finally losing their oomph.

“Thank God for PCM,” she thought shivering on platform 3, which could more aptly have been named "Blasted Wind-tunnel" with the icy easterly Siberian wind frosting her eyebrows. Huddling between the other commuters like Emperor penguins, she tried aligning to the placement of the 2nd class carriage, aiming to scoot in and leg it through to the 3rd class compartment ahead of the other penguins, the lemmings.

Scuttling more like the roach from Kafka than a noble denizen of the Antarctic, she elbowed her not so ladylike way into the musty and dimly lit corridor: delving right down into its stuffy maw. The puddles on the tired lino in the hallway of the SubT carried the oily reflections of the sallow faces of the commuters; none of whom had important or mysterious work to look forward to. A slog, something to avoid getting a Neg Point for, some warm gruel for midday, grog with it if you were in the higher echelons or someone's relative, or in their Fief, but that was about the max of it.

Dora clenched her visapass in her pocket, picking at the fraying edges. It just had to last until X-Day, it just had to. To replace it before its expiry date would cost her 49 neuro at least: a week’s wages. She was already paying her debt of rent with the loan from Erwin. The windfall from the sale of her aunt’s illegal books on 20th century German Art and Aegyptian archeology had gone to pay the interest on her outstanding juice bill. Lucky her aunt Elsie had a little cornucopia of PCM, diclophenac and some crumbling benzos in her inheritance, bless her good old hoarder soul. So those greased the palms of Philip, her odious roster-chef, towards pipping up the list for extra shifts in her lauded workplace, the dept. of Audits, Double and Crosschecks & Files in the Ministry of Taxes & Records.

The SubT slowed as it clawed its way out of the tunnel under the canal, the aging wiring causing the lighting to flicker. Dora sighed, stuffed her hands deeper into the pockets of her tired grey parka, pushed back into her seat, and muttered, "Geez, put an end to it all, would ya?"

Just as the pallid daylight feebly fingered the grimy safety glass, the decades of cumulative machinery mis-takes, the centennial clusterfuck, culminated into a colossal implosion somewhere unseen in the industrial sector of the Westelijk Havengebied. The lights flared then collapsed, the train shot forward in a final paroxysm, then flew off its rusty undercarriage and plunged off the embankment into the watery ditch just after the Vinkebrug in the no-mans land of Spaarnwouderveen.

##~ * ~

When she came to, it was to screaming agony in her head, blurred vision and a 100 dB high-pitched whine in her ears. Her limbs were tangled in those of other passengers. she could hear moaning, some cries, distorted and far off, as if she was in a fishbowl. 

She knew then she had to get out, get out, get the heck out of that cadaver of a train. Pulling herself up out of the soft and warm bodies, covered in a shimmering lake of shards of glass, the leaking battery fuel dripping down wildly, and fizzling wiring dangling dangerously, she pushed into someone’s sickly soft stomach, who groaned and then nothing. Extricating her legs, sore and scraped and her canvas pants torn, but her boots thankfully both still on, though covered in red grimy entrails, she retched but clawed her way upwards to the rent in the chassis, to the ashen wintery light.
