Chapter II - To The Copse

The air outside was cold and remarkably still - if you’d ignore the mediaeval loss of life in the crumpled remains of the train mangled like an accordion on the rutted embankment.
Dora stood bent over, clasping her knees and gasping rasping breaths that burned her lungs with the cold. The wretchedness of the accident and the warm blood on her boots overturned the contents of her already stressed stomach, and a small puddle of yellowish bile lay steaming in the grass. “Yellow, ‘cause of the PCM,” she thought uselessly.

~ * ~

The Anthropocene dept. Of the Ministry of Cultural & Natural Affairs had not skimped in it’s self-congratulation on the effectivity of the Cooling Programme: thusly formed in order to counteract the more negative aspects of the aforementioned age, such as the wild-fires on the western Seaboard, mass extinctions in Southern Aztecia, the cataclysmic flooding of most of the coastal zones of Eurasia wiping out several million Bengali, Myanmari, Thai, Hindi and Tamil. However in all their patting of backs, the dept. had quite overlooked that the populations of Canadian geese had long been decimated by said blistering wildfires, so no down-insulated parkas for Dora or other shivery Europeans. 

~ * ~

So that’s why she was so darn freezing, though the cold served to calm her neurotic heart beating a fool rhythm in her throat. She looked around expectantly - no, more than expectantly - like the certainty of extra credits for Xmas or roses blooming digitally. Looking or listening for a sign of life; of a fellow commuter; a co-worker; a human noise; or yet a simple “Hello.” Or a even just a cry for help. But no, none of that, just a chiffchaff bleating in a copse on the other side of the neon green field.
The lead-coloured clouds were perched low like dark predators and met the fog rising from the peat. Dora knew it wasn’t peat, just sludgy clay, but it was an age-old saying and being traditionalist, that alone gave her comfort. 
Nary a human sound was to be heard. Although now a slight hissing growing in amplitude, emanated from the crumpled remains of the SubT. Also steam. Steam that quickly blackened into oily smoke, which burst into flames in a space of thirty seconds. “Like the quiz game,” she thought irrelevantly. 
From the recesses of her mind, original, human, unpredictable, fragile, weak and emotionally unstable she fumbled for the visapass in her parka pocket and flung the battered emblem of servitude into the gaping maw; now belching happy flames about shoulder-height quite unabashedly. 
She would always say that that moment was not a moment of temporary insanity, quite the opposite: a coming to. 

~ * ~

Dora turned from the accordionated crematorium and ran towards the copse about a hundred metres on the northern side of the field covered in long wintery sedge grasses. “Why a chiffchaff, they’ve such a dumb-ass call,” she thought, although she for once didn’t admonish herself, but felt gleefully disobedient, slogging through the half-frozen nitrogenous grassy bog, icy water seeping though her boots, clearing her head from the aches. “The copse should be on higher ground, and drier,” she wheezed. What was she thinking?
