
# Chapter III - The Cove

The machines.

Dora had never been a Luddite; quite the contrary. She embraced AI the second it became free of charge (never mind the incessant product placement). Vlogging 10-20 hours a week (a clunky satire on Tamagochis) and harvesting swathes of followers and a reputation - her enjoyment was skin-deep. Something was off. 

Only twelve months earlier, happy chappy chirpiness had been exuded by all those who contracted AI: whether their bank accounts were glutted with too many zeroes or just poor punters. It was the witless rubbernecking that bothered her. It made her old elbow fracture ache. 

Brace yourself, winter is coming. 

Sure AI was mind-bogglingly fast, sure it was convenient, sure the wife bots were a hit with the incels and good riddance to them all, of course it cut through the vapid bloatware the internet had become. Yet...

<!-- Rewrite all this; she's making Tamagotchis to elevate this fact. To shut her up, she's given the job in the Ministry. She has to take the job on condition that she stop with the vlogging. 

The fantasies the AI simulacra regurgitated for us were precision tailored to our individual most base needs and humours. What makes us human? AI not being human will help us define this elusive quandary. 

The love for make-believe - to aspire - is one of humanity's most intrinsic talents; pivotal to our self-awareness. Yet our penchant for make-believe has a Dark Side. We can appoint it to cloak our weaknesses; fritter away our our desperation when the reality of our paltry existence: solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short becomes an inescapable nightmare. Then too it can help us hide our failure to face our feebleness 

The robots simply had no ideal, no motivation, no inkling, no vestige of reality, no proprioception, no feedback loop into reality. The Tamagochis she spoofed were good for a few thousand likes; yet they were a figment of an automaton's ham-fisted and myopic Nebuchadnezzar’s statue, moulded from wallows of junk on the internet - and truth or reality not notably different from myth or Marvel. 

Of course, the AI-missionaries would account for every vagary or glitch with an addition to the convoluted rule books and principles to govern the automatons. After seventy-odd years only vestiges of the nimble three rules of Asimov were traceble in the AI protocols. 

--> 

Fresh out of her literature M.A. she had resigned herself to a bleak cognitariat occupation of training LLMs in literature and poetry in basements of abandoned university libraries. Who was to have predicted that her infatuation with spoofing Tamagochi would lead to a job interview with the uber-stuffy Ministry of Taxes & Records? 

The job interview was for a semi-permanent work order in the aforementioned department of _Audits, Double and Crosschecks & Files_ (the dept. of A, D, C & F for short). The bubbly HR ensign, Ms. Dolores Lasterar, evidently had no idea what the job entailed, and could barely read out the tasks: "improving infallibility of records ... de-mystifying historical events ... objectifying sentimental causes..."

Dora's wild enthusiasm at this one in a million opportunity was abruptly doused by the condition that she stop her vlogging instantly. Doable, her followers had been lured away to the next fad (AI generated spaghetti eating frogs). 

The interview continued amically, the ladies sipping their tepid teas in seaweed cups. On the subject of Ms. Olivetti's fit for the role, Ms. Lasterar curiously labeled Dora's childlike exuberant vlogging as "manifest... uh, conscientiousness and diligence for recording historical documents" reading from the prepped dossier. 

Some instinct refrained Dora from correcting Ms. Lastarar's misconception - not only because the likeable brunette shuffled on her seat and was rather red in the face what with all the fancy words she had to read and any affront might cause her to break down in tears - but because being presumed meticulous seemed a key requisite for getting this bonanza of a job. Though it was hard to tell what the job really entailed because of Ms. Lasterar's botched rendition. 

"Fiddlesticks," thought Dora, "consider the perks of ample grog and B2-grade lunch thrown in, a no-brainer yo!" and Dora Olivetty signed her bureaucratic DocuCommit then and there. 

Yet her elbow fracture had throbbed all throughout the interview. 
<!--
, where the irony of the kinship the bulking AI rule-books had with the Byzantine law and bylaw-books of the dept.: inscrutable and obfuscating, found a receptive customer in her. 
-->

##      ~ * ~

The copse was slightly elevated due to its erstwhile purpose as an iron-age fortification. Built on the upturned hulls of expended riverine craft, animal bones, discarded shards of pottery and other flotsam and jetsam, it was essentially a raft, or, for the optimistic, a house on poles. Yet sheltering an information-age trove. 

When Dora was about done in with plodding through the sludge she stubbed her toe on one of these bones - and set off the silent alarm. The copse was overgrown with brambles, hawthorns, and stunted willows. A small opening looked like a path to something dry to her, and she crouched down and crawled in. Then strong hard hands pulled her down, and she tumbled down slippery plastic into a dimly lit cove. Of sorts. 

##      ~ * ~

“Who the hell are you and how did you survive THAT,” barked a gruff but young voice attached to a skinny young man with a scraggy beard and blonde wispy hair covering what looked like bright blue eyes. On saying “that,” he waved his gangly arm in a broad arc like a crooked windmill. After sliding down, Dora was sat on her butt in a plastic dome that was rather a nasty, dirty, wet hole, filled with the ends of worms and an oozy smell.

 “Look dude, I just got here, and got lucky, so give me a break!” She snapped, “and for that matter, what the heck are YOU doing here?!” 
 
Only then she noticed the trio of people crouching a few meters back in the gloom of what looked like a corridor. Scared these might be partisaners or rebels or incels, or the unvaccinated, the unpassed, and most likely hungry and violent, she made an appeasing gesture with her hands. 

“Look, it was a mess, I don’t know what happened. I knocked my head. But the lights went wild in the SubT and then we got like a power surge and then the whole thing shot out of the Halfwegtunnel and derailed and everyone was dead or dying except me,” she explained hurriedly. 

“So I know as much as you do, okay. Oh yeah, my visapass I tossed into the fire, so I'm nobody now. By the way, my name’s Dora, and you…?" she extended her right hand. 

The dude looked relieved, smiled a skewed smile and extended his right hand and said, "My name is Tako, welcome to the Houtrakkers, this partisaner Houtrakkers Hole, Dora."
