# Chapter IV - The Houtrakkers

The Houtrakkers were, in fact, partisans. As well as anti-clerical, anti-establishment, anti- … well, anti-everything really. And luckily for them, and lucky for Dora, also anti-AI and antisocial. These beliefs, in combination with a healthy dose of paranoia, had them vest their privacy and humanity in their own hands, well before preppers started to cache their biometrics; namely, rather too late. 

The core of the group was led by Tako: named such not after the maize snack from Mexico, but after the Japanese word for octopus: his tentacles were everywhere: reaching through the Inter-web, on the Dark Web, the crypto singularity, and way beyond. 

The group consisted of about five to ten members at any given time. They only had ten names to give out: the Dutch terms for the numbers one to ten. When someone left, to start another Houtrakkers group somewhere, they would vacate their name and choose another Japanese fish or mollusc as a name. Why? Because of Douglas Adams’ book So Long, and Thanks For All the Fish, naturally. 

##                                         ~ * ~
          
“Come, let me show you our place,” Tako said. The trio denizens scattered away into a dark passageway. “Never mind them, introductions will come later,” he crouched into the passageway and a dim light flicked on. 

“We’re re-using the derelict fortifications from the Napoleonic and 20th century. They weren’t considered viable defences in this day and age of cyber warfare - all the more useful for our purposes. These tunnels connect to the Liebrug Fort which is only a stone’s throw away on the other side of the A4 underpass. Not that anyone comes there anymore.” He ran his hand over the mossy glistening brickwork. 

“We use the dampest chambers to grow mushrooms, we make all sorts of stuff from them, clothes, food, isolation material, bedding…” He took a righthand corner. “Some parts are always wet, those we cover in seaweed mats, to dry them out, like where you tumbled down.”

Dora was adamant to keep her keen sense of direction in the dark underground, but her head was still befuddled from the crash so she gave up pronto. “Great brickwork though,” she said, “But how did you know I was coming? And how come the emergency services weren’t all over the crash site in a flash?” 

“Ah yes, good question, but one thing at a time. We do have an elaborate silent alarm system strung up around the perimeter of our den. I’ll show you the Control Room first,” and he slung his lanky frame around another corner.
“We also registered the crash on our seismograph. Not that impressive, in this bog.” He stopped in his tracks and swung around to face Dora and looked at her piercingly. “Although we must still establish whether we can fully trust you. Can we?”
Dora expelled a breath she didn’t realise she was holding, “Yes, yes of course,” she blurted, surprised by her sudden need to want to be trusted by this rakish blond pirate and his fuzzy mateys.

“Hmm, well, we’ll see soon enough,” he lisped, “Anyway, here’s the Control Room, or Bridge, if you’d consider this a spaceship,” and a thin metal door slid open which made a swooshing sound. 

“It sounds just like the doors in Star Trek Enterprise!” exclaimed Dora, much impressed. This was only the beginning of a squall of impressive sights and sounds for Dora, who stood in awe at an impressive array of consoles flickering blue and green lights like an aurora borealis. Above the consoles, which were fronted by three large pilot seats, were 8 huge synced screens which depicted a 360 degree of the surroundings of the Houtrakkers environs; fat XOLED 8640p hyper-gamma views, so sharp that she could almost see her sludgy tracks through the sedge leading from the crippled carriages on the embankment.

“Drie, zoom in on the wreckage,” Tako said, no, commanded Tako, though in his customary soft, lilting voice. Only then Dora noticed there was a hunched figure sitting in one of the podlike pilot seats. She couldn’t really see him or his face because they stood more or less directly behind the pilot seats. She recalled the naming convention for the dwellers. “Drie” meant “three”. She wondered if he was the original Three. Drie grasped a joystick and one of the screens blinked once and then showed the mangled train, still smouldering. 

“Look, a govt. drone,” said Tako and Drie in unison. Drie zoomed in on the dark insect hovering a few meters in the air over ground zero. It looked bewildered in its movement. 

“Total anthropomorphic appropriation,” thought Dora, “It’s only the drone’s pilot that is freaked out and his/her movements are showing in the drone’s behaviour.”

“You’re right about that Dora, and interestingly it’s not a standard sweep drone, but has been deliberately sent to the site,” replied Tako. Dora was befuddled, she wasn’t aware that she had spoken out loud. Tako’s voice started taking on an echoey and lurching quality. The dimensions of the Control Room started to ebb and flow. The Control Room started spinning very gently round her head. Or at least it would be if she could see it which she couldn’t. Dora felt her eyes roll back into her sockets and everything went pitch black. 

##                                         ~ * ~
     
Dora’s concussion had finally got the better of her. She smelt something being waved underneath her nose. It was Tako, offering her some peanuts. 

“Eat these,” he urged, “it will replace some of the protein lost in the matter transference beam.“ Not quite sure she had understood him, she nodded. Weakly she groped for them and started chewing the salty nuts wearily.

“Yep, you’ve a concussion alright. You’ve been out about a day. You should feel better shortly.” He handed her a plastic beaker containing what looked like beer. 

“Have some mushroom pale ale. It will cushion the shock coming back to your body.” Too tired to argue, she took some sips. It was rather good actually, nutty and malty. 

“Now about our security, and how we knew, and why it happened here. We’ve obfuscated this perimeter thoroughly,” explained Tako. “Hemmed it off with GSM blockers. Building on old GSM dead zones between Schoten and Spaarnwouderveen. We have props of normal objects or entities like rabbits and fishing herons - but they are just props. You’ll find quite a lifelike farmer scarecrow behind the row of willows perched on his tractor - a dummy on rails. We have drones disguised as chiffchaffs. We have green screens which portray nothing going on whilst we work behind them. And we have green suits- “ 
Dora interrupted Tako, “So you’re really the little green men!” she exulted. Tako laughed.

“Yes, in fact we are, But we need an emissary to move between our world and the outside one and we just can’t get a visapass because we don’t exist. So you have to go and get your replacement.”

“Okay… but won’t they think I’m dead?” questioned Dora.

“They might, but we’re not sure,” Tako pondered, playing cleverly with a guitar pick flipping it across his knuckles. 

“The thing is, we made sure you made it out. You had an 84% fit on the profile of becoming a proper emissary. I know I said I was surprised at you when you first came down here, but that was a bit of a fib, to see if you were bona fide.” 
Dora puffed with pride, but felt instantly let down, and said indignantly, “What d’you mean, only a 84% fit? What 16% doesn’t fit, ‘ey? What am I lacking? Not up to proper Houtrakkers’ standards? And you lied to me as well?!” 

“The fit? Well that’s largely a matter of definitions and calibrating our weighing system,” 

Dora scoffed at this woolly talk. Tako resumed, and becoming more precise, said, “What the percentage means is that there’s 16% that is simply unknowable about you. And that’s rather curious. I consider that in itself to be a good thing, so on the basis of that alone, I would give you a 100% fit.” 

Dora’s concussed mind reeled at the possibilities. She didn’t understand a darn thing and it was bloody exasperating. She sat bolt upright, and blurted, “I’m through with this mumbo-jumbo guru stuff, sitting in this mouldy old goblin cave with nothing to sit down on or to eat, except for these damn old peanuts. I’m outta here, you can stick that emissary stuff where the sun don’t shine!” 

Then she faltered. She had no way of getting a new visapass without some funds… and how could she get out of here without help? She couldn’t ask Erwin, or connect with him, or... because, well... Well, what? And of her work? Philip her evil boss from hell, might have already tendered her exit permit for undisclosed absenteeism… 

Tako looked at her with his wise and twinkling blue eyes, but seemed saddened she didn’t yet feel she belonged enough. 
“Look, I get it,” he said. “We’ve prepared a temp visapass with about 350 neuros on it. That should cover the lapse in your rent and get you a new pass. We’ve also let your work know you’ve had a slip down the stairs and bumped your head.” Well at least that bit wasn’t a stone-cold lie and she gingerly felt the scabby matted hair and bump on the back of her head. 

“Well Dora, it’s like in The Matrix, though in this case, you’ve already taken the red pill. It’s like Alice, but you’ve already gone through the looking glass. Yet you are fighting that decision with your rational capacities, whilst your limbic system has already figured it out - you’re already a Houtrakker.” 

“I guess... okay then,” she said, slumping her shoulders and releasing the tension. Glad of the generous 350 neuros, impressed by their hacking skills, and accepting this new and uneasy membership. 

“Then give me a green suit and some instructions.” 
