# Chapter V - The Party/The Hangover

The Damiate clocks struck 21:30, curfew time, and the scent of chicory coffee wafted through the dark room that was Dora Olivetti's chambers in Schoten, municipality in the Hollands. She sat hunched over a few white cards on a table, a pale LED candle flickering reflections in the two coffee mugs on the table. Opposite her, sat a cross-legged figure, languishing and blowing smoke rings. Slender and red-haired, all legs, she gazed at the cards on the table, bored.

"What does it mean, Dora? Those dratted Tarot cards?"

"Let's see, the High Priestess… and the Tower, reversed… Not good I think…”

"Oh it's all rot, isn't it? Magic doesn't exist," and Molly puffed another smoke ring.

Dora stretched her back and said, "Sure, Molly, and that joint will also cease to exist for me, so don’t Bogart that joint,” and she held out her outstretched hand, her index and middle finger apart so Molly could slide the delectable unit between them.

"Ahh, that's better," as Dora pulled the smoke deeply into her lungs and said with a constricted voice holding in the smoke as long as possible, "Look, we'll get into the right Tarot frequency puffing this thing. It's def from her travels in Morocco, my aunt, no doubt about it you see. I read her journal from her travels in the 1980s. Du vrai skif, it said." She exhaled the last of the acrid smoke, downed the dregs of chicory coffee and grimaced at the bitter taste. "Too bad I ran out of saccharine last week, sorry about that," and she looked apologetically at Molly.

"Wesh,” said Molly, “All the more reason to break out that Avezé booze, it's a far out party waiting to happen and I think we ought to get properly imbibed before the others arrive, since I know all about their insatiable appetites for anything fermented." 

Dora reached into the drinks cabinet on the left hand side of the comfy chair she was embedded in, conveniently placed within arm’s length, and stretched out to pull two thrift-store shot glasses which — peering at the glasses in the light of the LED candle — were just about clean enough to warrant consumption out of. Another reach of an arm procured a dusty bottle with a yellowing label, curling at the edges. “Yes, the bottle was under the kitchen sink, between the chlorine and the cleaning vinegar, classic."

"Good job your French studies finally amounted to something useful, knowing what Avezé is," said Molly admiringly, whilst Dora uncorked the bottle with her teeth and sloppily poured the amber liquor into the shot glasses. "Here ya go, bottoms up, or _santé, à la tienne_, as I should say!"

They both grimaced at the bitter gentian taste but smiled bravely at the windfall the demise of Dora's aunt had proffered. The doorbell chimed, just as the last of the Damiate curfew bells ebbed away. 

"Trust Erwin and them to be just in time," Dora said as she clambered out of the creaky wooden fauteuil, mangy with years of cat attention.

##                                         ~ * ~	

Dora peered through the video camera to see if it were indeed Erwin and co. She said, “When's Bloomsday? Also the year!” although asking this pre-arranged password was more of a literature buff gag than necessary spy craft, since she could easily identify Erwin from the way his eyes goggled the camera, and his two cronies joking in the background as well.
It had started off as a joke, these passwords, but since China had taken over large swathes of Africa for cheap labour and raw materials, drones were so cheap that every municipality used them for monitoring dog owners for poop scooping (a good thing), to passing as neighbourhood watch (not a good thing). Their humming and buzzing had become part and parcel of the urban auditory landscape. One could spot them hovering like dragonflies in front of windows, and if those were flummoxed by sheer curtains or reflective window film, then unscheduled follow-up visits by all too nosy so-called electricians, meter boys, milkmaids and what have you, were all part of the data-collection safety programs. So yes, one needed to baffle the bots. And since the machines were still largely insensitive to concepts of time, temporality and the depth of meaning of poetry, dates and obscure literary or poetic quotes were a staple. This time it was James Joyce providing the inspiration.

“Of course, ma biche, that's 16th June 1904. A Thursday,” he said. “Who's that with you then, ‘Leopold’?” she asked, although she was fairly certain Erwin’s compatriots were Gaelle, the sax player, and Puck, who worked in the hardware store selling bathrooms. They'd all met playing the AR-game underground ripped-off version of Pokémon, Insectomon, where you had to evolve insects and viruses.

“All right, come on in, but I hope you know it's BYOB.”

“No worries,” said Erwin through the tinny microphone, and a cardboard bag containing what looked like a bottle was held up to the camera. Dora unlocked the door, slid back the bolt and undid the latch. All strictly analog. Government certified electronic front door locks were child’s play to hack, and this fact was not popular with the authorities; any mention of its ubiquity was greeted with gritted teeth, and brushed off as tripe and retrowiped by an army of top notch bots scouring the socials.

They tumbled in, and Dora said, “Next time expect a password from The Hobbit,” and they hung their damp cold jackets on the wooden pegs passing as a garderobe. Stomping their feet, their glasses condensed with the fickle warmth supplied by the bio-methane installation in the buildings.

Dora waved to the kitchen, “Glasses and booze in there for equitable redistribution.” 

##                                         ~ * ~

The party progressed as a tropical storm might, from one gentle breeze to a firm blustery buffeting wind, with music louder and arms and legs gyrating, and kisses on blushing cheeks, to more whirlwind, palm-tree bending hurricanes, when arms and legs intertwined and glistening lips kissed were pressed on smooth lips and sweaty embraces exchanged in small cramped nooks and crannies of couches and loveseats.

The curfew nudged parties into all-nighters and sleepovers; everyone had to spend the night regardless. Or not go to sleep at all, and clamber into a duffel parka at 6 A.M., stealing a liquorice root from the pot on the shelf near the door to lamely conceal the sickly-sweet cannoning hangover breath that could curdle milk and make babies cry.
“Catch you later, Dora, faya party,” whispered Erwin in Dora’s ear, who mumbled something vaguely affirmative and snuggled closer into Molly's arms.

Molly, although quite the party animal, and more into experimental knowledge than the stuff from books, woke up when Erwin and co dragged their shabby selves out of the apartment.

“Yo Dora, you gotta get up, you don't want another Neg Point at work...” she smoothed a blonde curl from Dora's cheek and gently shook her. “Okay, I'm going to make us some chicory coffee...” and she extricated her gangly body from the couch and Dora's embrace.
