# Chapter VI - The Green Suit

Tako held up the green suit like a used latex glove. “Don’t worry, it just looks small. You can easily wear it over your parka,” he said reassuringly. 

“Glad I’m not a fashionista,” thought Dora. Bending down still sent waves of nausea through her and thudding bolts of pain through her head. They obviously didn’t have a hoarder aunt with aches and pains like she did, and mushrooms though useful, hadn’t been GM’ed enough to produce PCM either, she thought as she pulled the stretchy green fabric over her boots and her torn canvas pants. 

“I rather look like Shrek now!” she said as she pulled the suit over her parka and the hood over her head. 
Tako looked at her with mock disparagement, “Looks like you’re still in some pain from your concussion. Have some more of the mushroom ale,” and filled up her beaker. “Let’s get serious. You know where the Vinkebrug is right, just near the underpass? There’s a bicycle in the hedgerow on the south side. From there you can cycle due west to Schoten. Remember to take off your green suit before you get on the bike, otherwise you’ll look darn strange and attract undo attention. Here’s the bike keys. We’ll project some basic woodland field stuff behind you as you leave.” 

##                                         ~ * ~

Dora exited the Houtrakkers’ den on the north side, the far side, away from the trainwreck that she’d rather not see, clambering out through the twisted willow branches and the fake bramble door. There were some serious camouflage experts out there in the group, she thought. Worrying that she might rip the shiny synthetic suit, despite Tako’s assurances, she crawled out on hands and knees, waiting for the signal, a triple chiffchaff call.

Rather clumsily she got to her feet. The hood of the green suit also completely covered her head with gauze for the eyes and a slit of the mouth. She heard the chiffchaff call thrice, and saw the drone flap ungainly to the west, indicating the direction she needed to follow. 

The sky was dove grey and the wind blew chill in from the Polar north. Would it swing a bit more to the west, then snow was to be expected. She looked furtively to the south, towards the embankment. The wreckage and human remains had gone. The power lines were again twinkling in the wind, all repaired and stretched taut. She felt the slight tug of wind indicating a SubT - was it the 16:19 to Rijnsoever? - approaching through the tunnel. She ducked, still unsure about the adequacy of her camouflage. The train whizzed by unconcerned. 

She swallowed hard, glad the wreckage and the human tragedy had been obliterated. A bit of concern remained. How had they cleaned it up? Had they taken proper care of the deceased? She changed her gaze to behind her, and she saw the green screen barely discernible; she was part of the landscape now. On a rails in front of her, hidden near the ditch, a projector hummed the pastoral scene. 

"Almost like hide and seek," she guffawed to herself, "but let's prepare for quite a slog.”

The Vinkebrug was about a kilometer to the west, and the sedge had frozen solid and hampered her progress; slipping and sliding across the lumpy sods, afraid to fall and rip the suit. A fair bit of muffled cursing went on. Once she got to the edge of the field, there was a vague path, probably made by grazers, and the going was easier, which was all the more relief, since the pain-dampening mushroom ale was definitely leaving her system. The projector accompanied her on her righthand side and the green screen on her left, to the east.

She mulled over the possible B.S. scenarios the government could have come up with to explain a missing train and a couple of thousand of innocent civilians, but didn’t get far. Undoubtedly she and her colleagues would have to be tasked with rewriting a fair bit of what happened. Leaving out the ugly bits, no doubt about that.

After she got to the underpass, she decided to hide for a few minutes in a ditch by the Vinkebrug to make sure no one was approaching. “Rather unlikely,” she thought, “since this is enough to freeze one’s metaphorical balls off.” Once the coast seemed clear, she stripped off the green suit, shivering since it was unexpectedly insulating, and stuffed it into a coat pocket. The projector and the green screen trundled back to the Houtrakkers' den. She scrabbled onto the Vinkebrug, looked furtively right and left and headed for the hedgerow. 

Losing her footing on the gravel she slid down on her bum thinking, That's going to be a nice bruise," and she spotted a glimpse of chrome behind the hedge. She pulled the bike keys from her parka pocket and put them in the lock. Only a dry click and nothing else.

“Unbelievable, the wrong key!” She exclaimed exasperatedly. She was hardly keen on walking the 8 clicks to Schoten, the dangers of frostbite and hypothermia were quite real in this temperature. Desperately she twiddled the key in the lock, hoping it might just be frozen stiff. The cowardly winter sun had already gone down, it was getting dusk and colder soon. 
She noticed lights glinting on the chrome of the bicycle. She whirled around - a car! Thank god, help. Though what an excuse had she for being out here? A lost sheep herder? A ditch dredger? A sedge clipper? 

##                                         ~ * ~

Was it at all unreasonable to assume that the game was up, the die cast?

As the car approached slowly over the rutted old country road of the Batterijweg from the east, she could make out that it was a Nissan, silver. Its xenon headlights were on, so the license plate wasn't legible to her.

It trundled to a halt next to her. She took a deep breath and straightened her parka. She set her features into the expression of quiet optimism which it was advisable to wear when facing impending doom.

The sun was setting and it was getting noticeably colder. The driver slid down the window, and popped his head out. "Hey, can I help?" he said, and then incredulously, "Dora? What the heck?"

Dora peered at the driver's face obscured by twilight and stepped closer to not be blinded by the Nissan's headlights. "Erwin, is that you? A no tru!"

"Get in, get in, and tell me how on earth you ended up here!" and he reached over to open the passenger seat door. Rubbing her cold hands in her mitts, she got in the cosy little Nissan, the heater humming. "You wouldn't believe it," she said. "But I'll explain everything! For now just drive me back home to Schoten because I'm frozen stiff and I had an accident – rather, I escaped death – I was in the train wreck, and somehow I survived. But what the heck are you doing here?"

"Well, there was unusually thick traffic on the A9, and I had had a really productive day in the Archives, so on a whim, I took off via the Theemsweg and snuck into the Bretterweg into Spieringhoorn – yeah it's really a cycle path but this Nissan can pass for a disability car, har har," he put the Nissan into autopilot, set for home. "Kind of strange, but I saw a chiffchaff, totally out of season. I guess it's all confused because of the Chill, and the geomagnetic aberrations due to the Gulf Stream diminishing these last decades. I then saw the traffic wasn't at all bad, I don't really know what got into me to take this abandoned track… the Wethouder-van-something road, it follows the old dykes to the sluices. Then, you need to open the gates, and you're on the old Spaarwouderdijk. Used to play there as a kid, my grandfather showed me where to pluck the best blackberries. A pail full in summer. Anyway, then you end up near Zijkanaal Oost and you cross more canals and scoot over the Houtrakkersweg and it's easy sailing to the Vinkebrug. But I'll stop my incessant chatter, what is up with you?"

"Well, the train crash… I was in it… and I escaped. And got rescued, by some partisans…" Dora glanced over to Erwin, to check whether he thought she was totally bonkers or off her rocker. He looked at her calmly, waiting for the rest of her story. As a sci-fi buff, he was used to suspending his disbelief.

##                                         ~ * ~

Dora narrated the story, skimming over the coven in the copse, because it probably wasn't wise to be totally trusting. Even good old Erwin, who as someone in the ASS spectrum, couldn't lie or understand deception. They were passing the Liebrug fort. 

"So Erwin, any thoughts on why you were not stopped by any patrols? Or why I wasn't followed?"

"I think that we found a glitch in the Matrix. There is one weakness in the Machines, at least an obvious one, and that is that they require electricity to function. The second is that they depend on humans to be predictable. Just a thought…”

"Wesh, Erwin, are you high!" joked Dora, still warming her hands on the heater. They passed the bridge over the Spaarne and Erwin took over the wheel from the autopilot to navigate the 20th century ghettoes that was Schoten. A thick fog was oozing in the tight turns of the old Afrikaner slums from the Spaarne. The Nissan's headlights made out a scavenging dog, wet leaves, old cardboard boxes discarded. 

"So much for all the wealth," muttered Erwin, "George Orwell would turn in his grave."

"You can drop me off at the next corner, I need to get some jollof," said Dora, putting on her mittens. Erwin nodded and reduced pressure on the electro-motor pedal.

"Oh Dora," he said, once the car came to a standstill, "I was invited to your funeral – it's tomorrow, will you also come?"

"Well since I'm dead, I don't have anything better to do," she joked, her hand on the latch to open the car door. "You can't be serious though? What does that mean and how on earth am I to get my stuff back?"

"Actually, there might be a loophole," mused Erwin, "an administrative one, obviously," and Dora got out of the car, riled up at his mumbo-jumbo. Yet at work he knew the entire Lawbook of Taxation, Life & Death & Everything In Between like no other, so she was inclined to follow his train of thought, yet not now. 

"I'm too hungry for this, Erwin, let's see each other on the LoRa when you've thought it through and I've had something to eat, aight, lata mi,” and she exited the car and closed the door with an exasperated slam the Nissan didn't appreciate.
