Chapter VII - Bongwe

After the cold hike sustained only by paltry peanuts and a questionable mushroom ale, Dora was ravenous. She dove into the Kloosterstraat, past number 4 which had recently been evicted because of an illegal tobacco plantation in the cellar (it was those immigrant Americans of course), and dog and cat poo and rubbish littered the street. Number 8 was called “Number Ate” and was her favourite Ghanaian eatery. 
“Fa waka Bongwe, one jollof döner, alsjebro, and an amasi,” which was a nutritious fermented milk beverage.
“Everything's airy, sisa,” replied Bongwe, and presented his fist for a box. He turned to make her order and she walked to the fridge to get her carton of amasi. She noticed a small poster, the size of one of those antiquated postcards, stuck to a corner of the fridge door. It was black-and-white, seemingly hand-made or stencilled, and read:

		*** WELCOME TO THE MACHINE ***
		*** ALL HOUTRAKKERS CALLING ***
		*** MINITEL 3615-2BRON2B ***

Dora's previously chill demeanour vanished in thin air and the warm reggae sounds faded to a distant whirl. All she could hear was the beating of her heart in her head. She looked around and ripped off the card. She pulled open the fridge after struggling with the door. Was it a slider, or pull? She put the card in her parka pocket and said to Bongwe, as she swiped her visapass across the bleeper, “Wesh, you see them people hang up cards and posters near your fridge?”
Back’s zen exterior remained unflappable, but she saw his eyes narrow into highly focused little slits. “Meaning?” he asked.
“Well, I was wondering if it was some kind of music group…” her eyes wavered as she slid the notice-card over on the lino counter, paled and shiny with age and use. Bongwe glanced at the card while he packed her food into a seaweed bag as she sipped her Amasi from the carton. 
“Well, Dora girl, only because I've known you since we studied English together and went to Bashoe after, so I can tell you that they are indeed a faya ‘band’, and that yes they're giving a wee little concert tomorrow night, right 'ere upstairs." Bongwe put the packaged jollof on the counter. “Just wonderin', how'd you know of thems?”
“Well, just because, they kinda sounded familiar, is all…" Dora had no idea how to deal with all this spy lingo. Should you just come out and say it? How did Bongwe know about them? Was it a coincidence? Should she press him for more info?
“So thanks for the info eh, maybe mi check you tomorrow night,” Dora said, took the hot package and turned to exit the eatery. 
“For real,” Bongwe said, “and don't forget to renew your visapass, it’s a temporary one, you don’t wanna get no mathata with that.”
