Chapter VIII - Dora’s Gear

So hoarding ran in the family, kind of. Not something you'd readily admit to, because it was a virtue to chuck things out, preferably after a single use. Such was the drive for welfare, that to buy, expend, dispose, were touted on the socials as being really modern traits, like tranga, swa. Except Dora was a typical cognitariat wahra, and chucking out stuff like broken cables, or plugs used in the British Commonwealth, or tape, old screws, perfboards, LEDs, half-used notebooks... And now she would be vindicated, because this junk, stored in plastic containers neatly Dyno-labeled "junk" would mastermind her into the Houtrakkers.
She just hoped her previous girlfriend had not carried out the threat of clearing out "those damn antique boxes of crap" because the one thing she could promise the HRs, was two bakelite telephone sets, rotary phones; which when properly connected to a switchbox, would faciltate untraceable and unsniffable communication.
She wolfed down the still-hot jollof, and her eyes smarted at the Mme Jeannette heat. She visualised her basement storage of 9m2, going through the contents in her mind’s eye. Soured pages of Harry Potter adult edition books, photos, camping gear, an old tent, early 20th-century hand tools, GI Joe dolls, curtains from the previous tenant, too ugly to put up, but who knows, maybe to someone’s taste...
She’d have to lean over the spare bicycle parts, but presumed balancing on an old wooden snow sled in the rear left, would be the Dyno-labeled curver boxes. Being a ghost, she was glad she hadn’t yet run into one of the nosy neighbours and decided to time her visit to the basement at 20hrs sharp, when the obligatory news was broadcasted in a blaring tooting fashion from the TV-set. She turned on her set, sat the cardboard effigy of herself in front of it, and putting her hoody over her head, snuck out the door and down the hallway to the far end of the fire escape stairwell…

~ * ~

The cheap LEDs in the bare concrete basement flicked on with the motion sensor as she approached. They’d been installed the year before, much cheaper and efficient but of course, the returns were not redistributed to the tenants as she had vainly hoped, so no lower rent. Turning the corner to get to her storeroom, she heard the sound of wood crushing. She took a peek around the corner, still conscious of her deceased state, a total wild card when meeting people. She saw Raymond, her elderly next-door neighbour, attempting to force entry into her storage space with a makeshift crowbar. No time for niceties.
"Ah-hem," she said loudly, and strode toward the culprit. "What’s the meaning of all this then?" She hoped her forceful and loud tone would dampen the boomer’s mulish tendency to contradict anyone’s opinion or purported fact under fifty years of age, as well as distract him from the glaringly obvious fact that she was very much alive.
"My god, Dora!" he exclaimed, and looked like he had seen a ghost (which to his mind he had), and dropped the piece of metal masquerading for a crowbar, with a giant echoing clunk. "You’re supposed to be — and then I thought I’d clean up your sto—"
"Nothing of the sort, Raymond, you were trying to steal from a cognitariat chica, a serious felony!" and Dora stooped to quickly pick up the crowbar. "Never mind. I’m not dead, I survived the train wreck, and obviously the authorities will have everything sorted in no time, you know how they cannot abide mistakes,” and she glared at him with what she hoped was a piercing stare. 
"Anyway, you can certainly help me out in future and then I won’t report this serious transgression and attempted burglary or grave robbery," and she put the key in the lock, which had survived undamaged due to the weakened musculature of Raymond, boomer extraordinaire. 
“You can help me fill my fridge with your excess petrol, since you get more rations than I do as a senior citizen, then maybe I’ll not report you to the Police — so off you go then!” and waved him on, not wanting him to see the contents of her storeroom, nor what she was going to extricate from it. Raymond skulked off, his proverbial tail between his legs, shaking his head like a confused labradoodle.

~ * ~

She’d check in with him later, the fridge still had some days’ juice left. She opened the door, and switched on the light. She noted that the frame had suffered from the crowbar, she’d grab some wood filler to camouflage the damage. Now where were those boxes? Right where she visualised them; luckily the ex-gf had not carried through her threats of declutterisation.
She was not entirely sure Raymond would be more scared of her than of any authorities that could come snooping about. She’d have to find a way to keep Raymond mum. Perhaps she could invite him to her funeral; as a boomer he was a sucker for freebies. That would bind him closer, and she could share some of her painkillers with him to tackle his gout. She had a niggling feeling that underneath Raymond’s feeble and contrarian boomer demeanour lay a nugget of resolve as hard as a walnut, something not even the authorities had yet managed to crack. Indeed, it was hidden, in hibernation maybe, and cherished — like a squirrel hides its cairn and sleeps curled in its furry red tail, counting the little hazelnuts stashed safely away. And squirrels could bite when cornered — perhaps they even carried rabies?
Dora scraped the excess filler from the crushed frame and it looked as new. Newish, at least. The only giveaway was the smell of solvent. She hoped it would dissipate soon enough to not lead any one to her storeroom. As an afterthought, she smeared filler on edges of three other doors, so there would be no direct lead to her storeroom.
She lugged the plastic containers and the makeshift crowbar up the concrete bare stairwell three flights up, noticing how her body still throbbed as remnants of the catastrophe. The blood in her head thudded ominously loud. Before she arrived at her landing, she stopped to catch her panting breath, and listened before she pushed open the fire door a crack and peered into the empty hallway. No one in sight, the news broadcast hadn’t yet finished. The weather report had recently been extended to twenty minutes because they didn’t want to broadcast much real news. Besides, the public networks had been decimated by a few decades of right-wing yonks, preferring the drivel of commercialised influencer gossip thinly veiled as information.
"Tomorrow’s weather... is statistically likely... to be exactly the same as today…" she muttered. Though who was interested in statistics and fact any more, she wondered cynically.
